Good to see you again.
In this video, you will
learn how you can construct
your vectors based off
a co-occurrence matrix.
Specifically,
depending on the task
you're trying to solve,
you can have several
possible designs.
You will also see
how you can encode
a word or a document as a vector.
Let me show you how
you can do this.
To get a vector space model
using a word by word design,
you'll make a co-occurrence
matrix and extract
vector presentations for
the words in your corpus.
You'll be able to get a
vector space model using
a word by document design
using a similar approach.
Finally, I'll show you
how in a vector space you
can find relationships
between words and vectors,
also known as their similarity.
The co-occurrence of
two different words
is the number of times
that they appear in
your corpus together
within a certain word
distance k. For instance,
suppose that your corpus has
the following two sentences.
The row of the
co-occurrence matrix
corresponding to the word data
with a k value equal to two
would be populated with
the following values.
For the column corresponding
to the word simple,
you'd get a value equal to two.
Because data and simple
co-occur in the first sentence
within a distance of one word,
and in the second sentence
within a distance of two words.
The row of the
co-occurrence matrix
corresponding to the word data
would look like this
if you consider
the co-occurrence with
the words simple,
raw, like, and I.
In this case, the vector
representation of
the word data would be
equal to 2, 1, 1, 0.
With a word by word design,
you can get a representation
with n entries,
with n between one
and the size of your
entire vocabulary.
For a word by document design,
the process is quite similar.
In this case, you'll count
the times that words from
your vocabulary appear in
documents that belong
to specific categories.
For instance, you could
have a corpus consisting of
documents between different
topics like entertainment,
economy, and machine learning.
Here, you'd have to
count the number of
times that your words
appear on the document that
belong to each of the
three categories.
In this example, suppose
that the word data appears
500 times in documents
from your corpus related
to entertainment,
6,620 times in economy documents,
and 9,320 in documents
related to machine learning.
The word film appears in each
document's category 7,000,
4,000, and 1,000
times respectively.
Can you get a sense of where
this is going already?
Once you've constructed
the representations
for multiple sets of
documents or words,
you'll get your vector space.
Let's take the matrix
from the last example.
Here, you could take
a representation for
the words data and film
from the rows of the table.
However, I'll take the
representation for
every category of documents
by looking at the columns.
So the vector space will
have two dimensions.
The number of times that
the words data and film appear
on the type of document.
For the entertainment corpus,
you'd have the following
vector representation.
This one for the
economy category,
and that for the machine
learning category.
Note that in this space,
it is easy to see that
the economy and machine
learning documents are much
more similar than they are to
the entertainment category.
Coming up soon, you'll make
comparisons between vector
representations using
the cosine similarity and
the Euclidean
distance in order to
get the angle and
distance between them.
So far, you've seen how to get
vector spaces by two
different designs,
word by word and
word by document,
by either counting the
co-occurrence of words
or the co-occurrence of words
in the document's corpora.
I also showed you that
in vector spaces,
you can determine
relationships between
types of documents
like similarity.
Now you're becoming more and more
familiar with these
vector spaces.
You've seen several possible
designs that you can
use to solve a specific task.
You've also seen
how you can encode
words or tweets as vectors.
In the next video, you will
learn about a new similarity
metric that will allow you to
compare these two vectors.
The similarity metric is known
as the Euclidean distance.